The first chart shows there were 229 million unlinked transit trips in the region in 2023, up 14% from 2022 as ridership continues to return following the Covid-19 pandemic. Ridership is up 84% from 2021’s low of 124.8 million annual trips, with commuter rail (+192%), subways (+96%), and light rail (+81%) leading the way. However, 2023 ridership remains 35% below 2019 pre-pandemic levels and 43% below the 2013 peak in this dataset, with 405 million annual unlinked trips. Buses are by far the most commonly used transit mode in the region, serving 53 percent of riders between 2000 and 2023. Subways are the second highest, carrying 28 percent of all unlinked trips over this period, while commuter rail is third at 10 percent. 

The second chart shows transit ridership by agency. SEPTA serves the majority of the region's transit riders—86.1%. New Jersey Transit carries 11.4% of the region's transit passengers, while PATCO moves 2.4% percent, and PART transports 0.1%.

Both charts can show ridership trends per capita, per revenue vehicle hour, and revenue vehicle mile using the value type dropdown. Per capita shows similar trends as total ridership, while higher capacity vehicles that operate in denser parts of the region—subways, light rail, and trolley bus—tend to have greater ridership per vehicle revenue mile and hour. 

Fares paid by riders help fund operating costs. The 2020 *Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security* (CARES) Act provided $25 billion to transit agencies around the nation to make up for lost revenue. The region’s transit agencies have exhausted their portion of this funding. New Jersey has passed a new “Corporate Transit Fee” that enacts a 2.5% surtax on corporate taxpayers with an allocated taxable net income over $10 million to fill New Jersey Transit’s projected operating funding gap. Pennsylvania has flexed highway funding to transit operations that will carry SEPTA through June 2025, but has yet to find a long-term funding solution. Without additional operating funds, SEPTA will have to raise fares by 30% and reduce service by 20%, potentially setting off a death spiral for this vital service.