In 2019 the number of direct international destinations from PHL is 40, rebounding back to 2009 levels. The drop in destinations after 2009 was most likely affected by the Great Recession, which caused many companies and families to curtail international travel, and the airline industry responded by reducing destinations. The number of destinations dropped to a low of 33 in 2017. In 2011, destinations were down to 34 but increased to 38 by 2014 with an increased number of flights to the Caribbean. Still, destinations dropped further in subsequent years to 33 in 2017 but increased by one in 2018 and then by six in 2019.

This fluctuation in international destinations is not uncommon for the airline industry as airlines add and remove flights to accommodate their entire national and international network. Following the American Airlines and US Airways merger in 2013, one might have expected a greater drop in international destinations as PHL's future position as an American Airlines hub came into question. Instead, over the following years there was a shift as Americans chose to keep more of their European capital destinations with connectivity out of New York but grew their connections to second-tier cities from PHL. In 2018 American Airlines added flights to Budapest, Prague, and Zurich, and in 2019 flights to Halifax, Dubrovnik, Bologna, and Berlin.

Europe remains the top flight destination, with 23 destinations in 2019. The Caribbean (10), Canada (4), Mexico (2) and the Middle East (1) make up less than half the 2019 destinations. Year-round destinations made up 65% of total flights in 2009. They peaked in 2014 at 74% but have since dropped to just 50% in 2019.

Although total destinations have rebounded, the number of seasonal flights may point to a stronger focus on leisure travel from PHL relative to business travel. Without a diversity of consistent, year-round destinations, it is harder for businesses in the region to connect to international markets and for businesses abroad to connect with us.