Although disparities exist between men and women on a number of levels, the metrics used here are focused on income and workforce participation. These give an indication of how women are able to support themselves and their families relative to men.

When using U.S. Census Bureau products like the American Community Survey (ACS) or the decennial census, we are limited in exploring the realm of sex and gender in a binary scale that suits neither sex nor gender. Referring to household members, the ACS asks, "What is Person[x]'s sex?" and offers two check boxes: male or female. Sex is a term referring to a person's anatomical characteristics. The binary choice in the survey leaves out intersex and trans individuals. _Gender_ refers to a person's identity. People may identify with the gender assigned to them at birth (cisgender), a different gender (transgender), or gender non-conforming, genderqueer, gender fluid, or non-binary identities. Since the survey refers to sex, we use the same term, knowing it has limits. Consequently, _Tracking Progress_ sex disparities trends examine differences between whomever chose "male" or "female" for whatever reason they responded in that fashion to those inadequate choices. The term sex is also in line with the protections against discrimination based on sex found in the [Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1973](https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/23/324)—a law DVRPC must comply with as a public agency receiving federal funds.

Income was adjusted to 2017 dollars according to [U.S. Census Bureau guidance](https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/acs/guidance/comparing-acs-data/2017.html) on comparing income data from ACS one-year values with previous ACS releases and the 2000 decennial. Users should be aware that the 2000 decennial asked about income from 1999, and the ACS asks respondents for income in the past 12 months. This means at least some of respondents' income will likely be received in the year prior to the year the respondent was surveyed.

Median income trends are found in the first and second chart. The first shows the difference, or gap, between male and female, varying by the value type selected (Gap or Percent Gap). The second shows total median income trends for both male and female. In order to estimate median income values at aggregate geographies—the DVRPC region, New Jersey counties, and Pennsylvania suburban counties—weighted averages of male and female population were used across component counties.

The final charts explore _labor force participation rates_ (percentage of those aged 16 to 64 years who are either employed or seeking work, relative to all 16- to 64-year-olds). The third chart displays the gap in participation rate between male and female persons and the fourth chart shows the percentage of participation for each group.

_Note: In November, 2019, the Census Bureau issued [a statement acknowledging errors in 2017 ACS data for Philadelphia County](https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/acs/technical-documentation/errata/121.html). The error may impact the Sex Disparities indicator for Philadelphia and regional aggregations. DVRPC is aware of the issue and intends to update Tracking Progress with 2018 ACS data soon._