Regional freeways have held fairly consistent reliability scores on weekdays in recent years. There was a minor increase in Planning Time Index (PTI) values in the period spanning 2011 (1.36) to 2021 (1.38), indicating 1.5% less freeway reliability. The lowest PTI score was 1.2, occurring both in 2020 when travel was greatly reduced due to the shutdowns of the Covid-19 pandemic. By 2021 freeway PTI levels were back to normal (1.36). 2018 and 2019 were tied for highest PTI at 1.41 in those most unreliable freeway years preceding the pandemic. Local facilities are tracked as far back as 2014, which was tied with 2015 for the peak level of unreliable Local regional roadways with PTI values of 1.39. Contrary to Freeways, the Local roads haven’t stopped their downward PTI trend since dropping in 2020. 2022 was the most reliable year for Local roads with a PTI of 1.25.

Among DVRPC counties, Philadelphia consistently ranks highest for both freeway and local PTI scores. Gloucester is most frequently ranked the lowest in the index, or most reliable.

Reliability is highly conditional on time period. The second chart shows that a weekday evening peak period of 3:00 PM to 7:00 PM is when reliable travel most suffers, particularly on freeways. Down from its peak in 2011 (1.68), the 2020 freeway evening peak dropped to 1.36, then rebounded to 1.60 in 2022. By comparison, weekday freeway morning peak periods average around 1.37. Because of the spreading of when trips are made since the pandemic, the midday time period has drawn closer to the morning peak period in reliability. For both Freeway and Local facilities, PTI for midday exceeded the AM peak period in 2020 and 2021. AM nudged out midday reliability just barely in 2022. Local facilities tend to have less variability by time period, with weekday morning, midday, and evening values around 1.25 to 1.50. Nighttime is notably lower (averaging 1.12 on Freeways from 2011 to 2021).