Regional highways have held fairly consistent Planning Time Indices (PTI) on weekdays in recent years. The first chart shows that highway PTI, averaged over a 24-hour period, reached a new peak of 1.42 in 2023, and has increased by 4.3% since 2021. The lowest highway PTI during this period was 1.20, which occurred in 2020 when travel was greatly reduced due to the shutdowns caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Local facilities are tracked back to 2014, which is tied with 2015 for the highest local roadway PTI at 1.39. Local roads have declined in PTI since 2015, except slight increases in 2019 and 2023. 2022 was the most reliable year for local roads with a PTI of 1.25.

Philadelphia consistently ranks highest for both highway and local PTIs, meaning it has the least reliable roads. Chester and Gloucester Counties most frequently rank as the lowest, or most reliable, in the index.

PTI is highly conditional on time period. The first chart shows that a weekday evening peak period is when travel is the least reliable, particularly on highways. Trips have become more spread throughout the day since the pandemic. As a result, midday PTI has generally been increasing, and now looks similar to AM peak PTI. Midday PTI exceeded the AM peak period PTI for local roads in 2020, and for both highways and local roads in 2021, and the local AM peak was just barely higher than midday reliability in 2022 and 2023. Local facilities tend to have less variability by time period, with weekday morning, midday, and evening values around 1.25 to 1.50. Overnight is notably lower, averaging 1.12 on highways from 2011 to 2023, and 1.17 on local facilities from 2014 to 2023.

In 2023, 81.0% of the region’s interstate roadways had reliable travel conditions. This performance was better than prepandemic ranges of 73.3% to 75.0%, but below the 2020 reliability peak of 90.5%. Camden County has the lowest percent of reliable interstates in the region at 57.3%, while Philadelphia has the lowest percent of reliable non-interstates at 78.8%. Chester County was the only county in the region where interstates were 100 percent reliable every year from 2017 to 2023. 

The region’s TTTR was 1.67 in 2023. This value is below the worst performing year, 2018 with a value of 1.91, and above the best performing year, 2020 with a value of 1.55. Philadelphia had the highest TTTR in the region between 2017 and 2023, ranging from a low of 2.58 in 2020 to a high of 2.90 in 2018. The city had the region’s highest TTTR in 2023, after being tied with Delaware County for the highest value in 2022. The Pennsylvania DVRPC counties have higher TTTRs, and therefore less reliability, than the rest of Pennsylvania as a whole and the New Jersey DVRPC counties during this time frame. The Pennsylvania DVRPC counties ranged from 1.69 in 2020 to 2.04 in 2018, versus Pennsylvania as a whole, which ranged from 1.23 in 2020 to 1.38 in 2018, and the New Jersey DVRPC counties, which ranged from 1.34 in 2020 to 1.70 in 2018.

In 2023, the Philadelphia, PA-NJ-DE-MD Urbanized Area had 13.9 annual hours of PHED per capita, up from 12.5 in 2022, or a 11.2% increase, and the Trenton, NJ Urbanized Area had annual hours of PHED per capita of 4.4 ,which represents a new peak. In 2023, Philadelphia had by far the most annual hours of PHED of any other counties, at 32.5 million and Mercer County had the least at 1.6 million. From 2017 to 2023, Philadelphia consistently had the most annual hours of PHED and Montgomery County had always the second highest during that same time frame.