One measure used to analyze roadway reliability is the _Planning Time Index_ (PTI). It is the ratio of the 95th percentile travel time relative to the free-flow (uncongested) travel time. PTI helps in understanding the impacts of nonrecurring congestion from crashes, weather, and special events. It approximates the extent to which a traveler should add extra time to their trip to ensure on-time arrival at their destination. A value of 1.0 indicates a person can expect free-flow speeds along their route. A 2.0 index value indicates a traveler should expect that the trip could be twice as long as free-flow conditions. PTI values from 2.0 to 3.0 indicate moderate unreliability, and ones greater than 3.0 are highly unreliable. 

The data comes from aggregated probe data—anonymized data from connected vehicles and commercial fleets—provided to the Probe Data Analytics (PDA) Suite by INRIX, a travel data technology company. The PDA Suite is a key tool developed by the Center for Advanced Transportation Technology Laboratory (CATT Lab) at the University of Maryland. The Eastern Transportation Coalition collaborates closely with the CATT Lab to develop and enhance the Probe Data Analytics Suite.

PTI values by region, subregion, and county are grouped either as highway facilities or local roads in the first chart. _Highways_ are roadway segments classified as interstates, turnpikes, and expressways in the PDA Suite. _Local roads_ are segments classified as U.S. routes, state routes, parkways, frontages, and others. The first chart reports average weekday values within the following time periods:

* Morning (AM): 6:00 AM–9:59 AM;
* Midday (MD): 10:00 AM–2:59 PM;
* Evening (PM): 3:00 PM–6:59 PM;
* Nighttime (NT): 7:00 PM–5:59 AM; and
* Daily: 12:00 AM–11:59 PM.

Although INRIX data collection precedes years reported in _Tracking Progress_, early years of reporting are highly variable based on a lack of facility coverage. The years from 2011 onward show higher stability for highway facilities for most counties and for the region. For local facilities, 2014 and beyond is where values seem most stable due to more widespread facility coverage.

Charts 2 through 4 show historic data for the federal Transportation Performance Management (TPM) system performance reporting requirements. These are Percent of Reliable Person-Miles Traveled on the Interstate and Non-Interstate NHS, Truck Travel Time Reliability (TTTR) on the Interstate, and Annual Hours of Peak Hour Excessive Delay (PHED) per Capita. The entire states of Pennsylvania and New Jersey are included in Charts 2 and 3 so the region’s figures can be compared with statewide data.

The percentage of Reliable Person-Miles Traveled is calculated in part based on the Level of Travel Time Reliability (LOTTR) metric. LOTTR is the ratio of the 80th percentile travel time to a “normal” travel time (50th percentile). This measure is calculated for four peak time periods: weekdays 6:00–10:00 AM, 10:00 AM–4:00 PM, and 4:00–8:00 PM; and weekends 6:00 AM–8:00 PM. If all four periods are below a 1.50

threshold criteria, the reporting segment is designated reliable; if not then it is unreliable. Both VMT and average vehicle occupancy are factored into the reliability measure. The final reliability measure is calculated separately for interstate and non-interstate routes as the total person miles that are reliable divided by the total person miles.

The TTTR Index measures how consistent travel times are for trucks on interstates. This can be helpful with analyzing goods movement along the region’s interstates. TTTR is calculated by dividing the 95th percentile of travel times by the 50th percentile of travel times for five peak time periods: weekdays 6:00–10:00 AM, 10:00 AM–4:00 PM, and 4:00–8:00 PM; weekends 6:00 AM–8:00 PM, and every day 8:00 PM–6:00 AM. The time period with the highest TTTR is used as the criteria for determining reliability. The TTTR is multiplied by its length for each reporting segment, and the results are summed and then divided by the total length of all reporting segments, to determine the area’s overall freight reliability TTTR Index value. The higher the index, the more unreliable.

The annual hours of PHED per capita measure is the annual hours of PHED experienced by travelers throughout an entire year on roadways, specifically during weekday peak hours. The “per capita” implies that the total delay is shared by all residents. This measure can be useful for analyzing the impact of congestion from the person trips perspective, not just vehicle trips, since it analyzes how many hours the average person spends stuck in congestion. The figures used are based on the 2010 urbanized area boundaries. For the Trenton, NJ urbanized area, PHED values only exist for the second four-year TPM performance period from 2021 onward, when urbanized areas (greater than 200,000 population) were required to start tracking metrics and set performance targets. Annual hours of PHED per capita is the ratio of the annual hours of PHED to the population of the UZA for that year.

Congestion is susceptible to external forces like the economy. A downturn can reduce congestion, but this reflects fewer and shorter trips for households and businesses during lean times and may not represent an improvement. Therefore, it may be useful to correlate these results with the Miles Driven indicator.