The Greater Philadelphia region's population grew by 6.5% between 2000 and 2018—an increase of a quarter million people. Compared with regions of the southern or western United States, Greater Philadelphia is more "built-out" and experiences slower overall growth. In the 2010 to 2018 period, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania would have declined in population were it not for growth in the five southeastern counties. Half of the increase in residents in those eight years came from Philadelphia alone.

In the first decade of this millennium, population growth was largely in the Growing Suburbs. These areas increased by over 150,000 people from 2000 to 2010, but growth was less than a third of that from 2010 to 2018. Meanwhile, growth in Core Cities was just over 8,000 people from 2000 to 2010 but was over 60,000—seven times the previous decade's growth—between 2010 and 2018.

Exploring the dynamics of county population by change components, most counties in the region had a positive natural increase—meaning they have more births than deaths—between 2010 and 2018. Bucks County has been the exception to this in recent years due to an aging population. In 2015, 2017, and 2018 it had more deaths than births. Still, overall growth was positive in these years because net migration outweighed the negative natural increase. In 2015, this was due to international migration alone, but in 2017 and 2018 both international and domestic migration increased in the county.

Throughout the region, international migration has helped to offset a general trend of higher domestic outmigration. Net migration tended to still be negative in most counties, but less so thanks to international migration. Chester and Montgomery counties, in particular, have benefitted from fewer years of negative domestic migration and consistently higher international migration. Camden County has seen its population decline since 2010. Although it has had a healthy differential between births and deaths, its net migration outweighed its natural increase. While there have been small increases in international migration, this hasn't been enough to overcome the loss of existing residents. From 2017 to 2018, however, net migration was offset by natural increase for a gain of about 8,000 residents in one year. Similarly to Camden County, Philadelphia has consistently seen more existing residents leaving than coming from other counties in the United States, but international migration outweighed domestic in 2011 and 2012 and natural increase has consistently outweighed net migration, leading to the county with the highest overall growth in the region since 2010.

The region's population is aging. With a large portion of the Baby Boomer generation now aged 65 years or older, the 65-plus population has grown from 752,900 in 2010 to 915,300 in 2018—an increase of over 162,400. Meanwhile, those under 20 years old decreased by almost 80,000, and those aged 35 to 49 declined by over 95,000 in the same period. Population ages 20 to 34 and 50 to 64 have seen moderate growth of around 60,000, respectively, in those eight years.

At over 3.9 million, or 68% of the total population, the region remains overwhelmingly White. Blacks or African Americans make up the second largest group, with 22% of the population. The racial group with the highest growth rate since 2010 was Asians (an increase of almost 80,000), followed by Blacks (almost 50,000), and those with two or more races (nearly 30,000). The White population has declined by over 54,000 in those same years.

The population estimates from 2010 to 2018 show a decrease of over 10,000 in the non-Latinx population. The Latinx community grew by close to 120,000 in those eight years, or 25% from its 2010 total. Still, at just 10% of the region's population, the Latinx population is small compared to many areas of the country.