The rapid rate of land development has been unsustainable over the last 25 years (13% increase in acres per capita) but has slowed over the past decade. From 1990 to 2005, the total number of developed acres in the region increased by 157,000, which is equivalent to 29 acres of development per day over the period. From 2005 to 2015, the rate of development decreased to 11 acres per day—a 62% drop in consumption rate. The Great Recession played a role in this slowdown, but the extensive land preservation efforts in the region, along with changing preferences toward redevelopment and greater density have also helped improve the trajectory.

From 1990 to 2015, the region lost 78,600 acres of woodlands, a decrease of 9%; and 155,600 acres of agricultural lands, a decrease of 25%. Over that same time period and on some of the same land, land devoted to single-family homes increased by 22%, or 82,600 acres. Chester County developed the most quickly over this period with an additional 52,800 acres of development, an increase of 45%; second was Bucks County with 41,700 more acres developed, an increase of 34%; and third was Montgomery County with 35,400 acres developed, an increase of 24%.

The Connections 2045 Plan maintains a goal of permanently preserving one million total acres in the region. As of 2016, the most recent year of record, Greater Philadelphia was nearly 60% of the way there, with 591,900 acres preserved. Since DVRPC's 2004 protected open space inventory, the total amount of protected land increased by 170,000 acres, or 40%. During this time, preserved farmland doubled, adding 67,400 acres; non-profit protected lands increased by 57,700 acres, or 123%; and state-owned lands by 23,900 acres, or 12%.

As of 2016, Burlington County had the most protected open space in the region, largely because of its overlap with New Jersey's protected Pinelands region, with 222,800 acres of preserved land. Chester County was second with 126,200 acres preserved; and Bucks County was third with 77,700 acres preserved. The region's rural areas accounted for 64% of all permanently protected open space with 376,000 acres.