Across the region, the average age of a transit vehicle in 2017 was 14.8 years, a 14.3% increase since 2000 and a 25% increase from a recent low of 11.8 years in 2013. The average vehicle age of 14.8 years in 2017 is the highest average age recorded since 2000. The average age of both buses and rail vehicles has increased since 2004, with buses increasing in age at a faster rate. Currently, the average vehicle age for both buses and rail vehicles exceeds the state of good repair standard based on a target fleet age of half the expected useful life.

SEPTA, the largest transit agency in the region, has managed to hold average bus age steady between 6.5 and 10 years since 2000 but has seen a consistent rise in average rail vehicle age, peaking at 29.4 years in 2017. SEPTA's delivery of 120 Silverliner V regional rail vehicles beginning in 2012 has brought the average vehicle fleet age down. Although these new vehicles replaced the Silverliner II and III vehicles dating from the mid-1960s, the majority of the fleet still comprises Silverliner IVs dating primarily from the mid-1970s, and the average age has continued to climb since the Silverliner Vs were introduced. SEPTA has ordered a number of bi-level vehicles for regional rail, but they have not yet entered service. SEPTA's light rail fleet for the Routes 10, 11, 13, 34, 36, 101, and 102 trolley lines dates from 1980 to 1981 and is soon due for replacement. The rehabilitated 1947 PC II trolleys operating on Route 15 have an anticipated 20-year lifespan starting from 2005 and will likely be replaced as part of a new ADA-accessible, low-floor trolley fleet.

PATCO's rail vehicles have also seen a consistent increase in average age since 2000, peaking at 45.5 years in 2017. However, between 2013 and 2019, PATCO performed a complete overhaul and refurbishment of its rail vehicles that adds 20 years of useful life of to those vehicles. Because these are still the original vehicles, the age did not reset at the same time in the National Transit Database, highlighting an important limitation of using this data to assess transit conditions.