Four different agencies provide transit service to the region. SEPTA provides bus and rail service to all five southeastern Pennsylvania counties and has several commuter rail lines that terminate outside this service area, in New Castle County, Delaware; and Mercer County, New Jersey. The Port Authority Transit Corporation (PATCO) operates a passenger rail line connecting Philadelphia with Camden County. New Jersey Transit (NJ Transit) runs buses throughout the four southern New Jersey counties and into Philadelphia and has three rail lines in the region: a light rail connecting Camden and Mercer counties, and two commuter rail lines connecting Philadelphia and Atlantic City and Mercer County to New York City. Finally, Pottstown Area Rapid Transit (PART) provides bus service throughout Pottstown and into several neighboring municipalities in Montgomery and Chester counties.

Average age of revenue vehicles is a useful measure of transit maintenance. Generally, rail vehicles have an expected 27-year lifespan, and buses have an expected 12-year lifespan; maintaining a state of good repair requires keeping an overall average fleet age of half the expected lifespan (i.e., 13.5 years for rail vehicles and 6.0 years for buses). However, each transit agency may define lifespans and state of good repair differently, and refurbishment can significantly extend the useful lifespan of a vehicle; therefore, the average vehicle age can only be considered a general guideline. Vehicle condition also only represents one element of transit system maintenance. Vehicles also require more regular and frequent replacement than other transit infrastructure, making trends straightforward to identify.

The Federal Transit Administration's (FTA's) Transportation Performance Management (TPM) measures gauge transit system conditions with four indicators: (1) the percentage of non-revenue service vehicles that have either met or exceeded their useful life benchmark (UBL) as identified by the transit agency; (2) the percentage of revenue vehicles in each asset class that have either met or exceeded their ULB; (3) the percentage of rail track segments with performance restrictions; and (4) the percentage of facilities within each asset class rated below condition 3 on the Transit Economic Requirements Model scale (which ranges from _worst condition_ to 5 = _best condition_). The year 2018 was the first year this was required to be reported on in the National Transit Database (transit agencies could voluntarily report this information in 2017). DVRPC will update this indicator with the TPM measures once there is enough data to show a trendline.

The graphs here present average vehicle age data reported by each of the region's transit agencies as reported to the FTA's National Transit Database, separated by either rail vehicle or bus. Rail vehicles include light rail and trolleys, heavy rail (i.e., subway), and regional rail passenger cars and locomotives.

The first chart depicts the average age of the rail, bus, and _combined fleet_ (all rail and all buses). The combined fleet average is obtained by taking a weighted average of rail and bus fleets to account for the total number of vehicles. Although the average age of the combined fleet cannot be directly compared with expected lifespans due to the mix of vehicle types, it is useful for identifying the long-term trend in vehicle age across the region. Use the dropdown menu to select individual or all transit agencies. When PART or PATCO is selected there is no combined fleet average because these agencies operate only buses or rail vehicles, respectively.

The second and third charts show the total number of vehicles in the rail fleet and bus fleet, respectively, according to the age of the vehicle (0–5 years, 6–11 years, 12–15 years, 16–20 years, 21–25 years, or older than 25 years). Looking at the overall age distribution is useful because it may indicate that a large number of vehicles are soon to pass their useful life, or that a number of older vehicles were retired without being replaced, which would lower the average fleet age without actually improving the state of the transit system.