Every five years, DVRPC performs a regional energy use and GHG emissions inventory of the Greater Philadelphia region. The inventory looks at energy use and GHG emissions associated with the residential, commercial, transportation, and other sectors of the region. The inventory does not include energy use or GHG emissions associated with the production of imports to the region, other than electricity.

GHG emissions are generally reported in metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO~2~e) units. This measure accounts for other gases, such as methane and nitrous oxide, as well as hydrofluorocarbons and perfluorocarbons, which are emitted in smaller amounts—but are more powerful GHGs—than carbon dioxide (CO2). For example, one metric ton of nitrous oxide has the same effect on global warming as 298 metric tons of CO~2~.

The first chart shows the trends of CO~2~e as totals or per capita values for all years DVRPC has inventoried. The second chart breaks this data up by emissions source. The third chart gives context for the major driver of emissions reductions: the region's shifting mix of electricity generation sources, using data from U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. The final chart gives further context of climate change's impact on the region using historic weather trends from National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration. This chart shows more volatile, annual data points and a smoothed 30-year trendline for three weather types: temperature, precipitation, and precipitation from severe storms.