Severe weather events and changes to our climate due to global warming pose threats to both the environment and the economy. Keeping global temperature change below 2°C (about 4°F) is expected to keep the global climate system stable enough to continue to support human civilization without radical changes to agricultural, transportation, and other systems.

The global temperature is dependent on the atmospheric concentration of several so-called greenhouse gases (GHGs) in the atmosphere. The higher the concentration of these gases, the higher the average global temperature. Since the start of the industrial age, the increasing combustion of fossil fuels has increased the concentration of GHGs in the atmosphere, leading to rising global temperatures. Higher global temperature has changed our climate, with warmer local temperatures, increased rainfall, and a rise in sea level due both to water expanding as it warms and to land ice melting. Climate change presents a major equity issue not only globally, but within our region. Those with the resources tend to live in cooler areas of the region, with more vegetation and street trees, and often at higher altitudes where they catch cooler breezes. Wealthier people are also able to afford housing that is better insulated and sealed, and are more likely to have and be able to afford to use air conditioning. Lower-income people are likely to be disproportionately burdened by the long-term effects of climate change.

Reducing global GHG emissions is critical to slowing the rise in the atmospheric concentration of GHGs, thus slowing or even reversing global temperature increases. Many of the actions taken to reduce GHG emissions will not only contribute to avoiding severe global climate change, but will also make our transportation network more efficient, improve air quality, bolster public health, and make the region's communities more livable. An energy-efficient regional economy with low GHG emissions will also be more competitive in a world where climate change and energy efficiency are important concerns.