Among households sharing income information, more than 752,000, or 33 percent of all households, were cost burdened (those paying over 30% of income on housing) in 2022. This is down 10% from its peak of more than 834,000 in 2011 and 4% below where it was in 2005 (37%), which is the first year in this dataset. 

The region’s Core Cities have the highest percentage of cost-burdened households, and Developed Communities have the second highest. Households in Growing Suburbs or Rural Areas may have lower housing costs and/or higher incomes. Households in outlying areas are also likely to have higher transportation costs.

A growing number of renter households became cost burdened in recent years, with an all-time high of 389,000 households in 2022, which is attributable to overall growth of renter population. The share of cost-burdened renter households was 48% in 2005, and 49% in 2022. It peaked at 51.5% in 2011. The number of cost-burdened owner homeowners decreased nearly every year from 2011 to 2019, but has gone up slightly every year since 2019. 

The number of households with a severe cost burden—greater than 50% of household income—increased over the 2005 to 2022 period, but the percentage of severely cost-burdened households dropped 0.7% over the span. It was 16.3% in 2005, peaked in 2011 at 18.5%, and was 15.5% in 2022. 

The ratio between self-reported median regional home values and median regional incomes was 3.8 in 2022, which has increased by 12 percent since 2019. It remains below the 2010 peak of 4.0, meaning the average house cost was four times annual household income in that year.