A commonly accepted threshold for what housing costs should be to remain affordable is 30% of a household's income. Accordingly, a household is considered _cost burdened_ if it pays more than 30% of its income on housing. Households paying more than 50% are considered _severely cost burdened_. These thresholds apply to both homeowners and renters? The American Community Survey (ACS) reports the percentage of household income spent on housing by ownership status and in various percentage ranges.

All data by county and region is from the one-year ACS. Since Planning Areas are made up of subcounty municipal data and one-year data is not reported below county level, only five-year ACS data is available in these cases. In the charts, Planning Areas are represented in the final sample year of the five-year period estimate. To avoid comparing datasets that use the same sample in common years, only period estimates with distinct sample years are used.

It is important to note that this indicator only measures cost burden among the region's households, not the supply of affordable housing. The directionality of cost burden trends can be impacted by changes in income and housing supply. If lower income households are priced out of the region or a county, it would create a downward trend in cost burden, but it would not reflect a positive trend for an inclusive housing market.

The first chart shows the percentage of cost-burdened households in the region and county geographies. The second shows the same data by Planning Area using 5-year ACS estimates. The third gives a count of households above or below the cost burden threshold by ownership status. The final chart splits the percentage of income spent on housing by households into multiple percentage ranges.

_Note: The Census Bureau issued [a statement acknowledging errors in 2017 ACS data for Philadelphia County](https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/acs/technical-documentation/errata/121.html). Philadelphia estimates for geography of residence are omitted as a result, but the error may impact regional aggregations. Also note, the 2020 1yr ACS was not released due to disruptions of the Covid-19 pandemic._