A commonly accepted threshold for affordable housing costs at the household level is 30% of a household's income. Accordingly, a household is considered _cost burdened_ if it pays more than 30% of its income on housing. Households paying more than 50% are considered _severely cost burdened_. These thresholds apply to both homeowners and renters. 

The Housing Affordability indicator only measures _cost burden_ among the region's households, and not the supply of affordable housing. The directionality of cost burden trends can be impacted by changes in both income and housing supply. If lower income households are priced out of a county or the region, it would create a downward trend in cost burden, but would not reflect a positive trend for an inclusive housing market. Rising incomes can reduce the cost burden, without increasing the supply of affordable housing units. Lack of affordable housing can stymie household formation, such as when multigenerational households form to share costs or adult children continue to live with their parents due to a shortage of available and affordable housing.

The first chart shows the total and the percentage of cost-burdened households, additionally broken down by owner- and renter-occupied households, in the region and by county. The second presents the same data by Planning Area. The third provides a count of households above or below the cost burden threshold by ownership status. The final chart displays the self-reported median home price to median household income ratio in the region and by county.

The American Community Survey (ACS) reports the percentage of household income spent on housing by ownership status, median home price, and median household income. All county and regional data comes from the one-year ACS. Households self-report their incomes, rents, mortgages, and home values when filling out the ACS. Regional Planning Areas—Core Cities, Developed Communities, Growing Suburbs, and Rural Areas—are aggregations of municipalities with some shared characteristics, and only have data available from the five-year ACS. Where Planning Area estimates are displayed, they use the final sample year of the five-year period (e.g., the 2006-2010 estimates would show as 2010). To avoid comparing datasets that use the same sample in common years, only distinct sample years are used in each period.

_Note: The Census Bureau issued [a statement acknowledging errors in 2017 one-year ACS data for Philadelphia County](https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/acs/technical-documentation/errata/121.html). Philadelphia estimates for geography of residence are omitted as a result, but the error may impact regional aggregations. Also note, the 2020 one-year ACS was not released due to disruptions of the Covid-19 pandemic._