There were 112.8 million daily vehicle miles traveled (VMT) in the region in 2023, an increase of 3 percent compared to 2022. This represents a return to prepandemic travel levels, and is just below the 2007 peak of 113.4 million daily VMT. Daily VMT declined during the Great Recession, then increased as the economy improved from 2012 to 2019. The onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020 caused an 18 percent one-year drop in miles driven in 2020. This was immediately followed by the largest one-year gain since 2000, when total daily VMT in the region jumped by 20%. In 2023, Montgomery County had the most daily VMT in the region at 18.2 million, while Mercer County had the least at 8.8 million.

VMT per capita is an easy way to conceptualize individuals’ driving habits. This has increased the last few years coming out of the pandemic, though it remains 6% below the 2006 peak. In 2023, Burlington and Gloucester counties led the region in daily VMT per capita, with 29.1 and 28.6 daily miles per capita respectively, while Philadelphia, the least auto-dependent part of the region, had the lowest at 10.6.

Daily VMT per vehicle declined by 13% between 2000 and 2023, despite a significant rise in the number of vehicles in the region over this period. In 2023, there were 740,000 more personal vehicles available to the region’s households than in 2000, a 25% increase. Per capita vehicle ownership also increased 14 percent over this period, from 0.56 cars per person in 2000 to 0.64 in 2023. In 2023, Delaware and Mercer counties had the most daily VMT per vehicle in the region at 41.5 and 40.5 respectively, while Philadelphia had the least at 22.9. Philadelphia residents also had the lowest car ownership rate in 2023, with just under one vehicle for every two people. Bucks, Burlington, Chester, Gloucester, and Montgomery counties all had more than 0.7 vehicles per person in 2023. Between 2000 and 2023, the largest percent increase in personal vehicle ownership on a per capita basis occurred in Philadelphia, growing 28% from 0.36 vehicles per capita in 2000 to 0.46 in 2023.