Annual miles driven, or VMT, is a distance-based measure of all vehicle travel on roadways (auto, bus, and truck) in a given year. Per capita VMT is the same measure divided by the same area's population for the same year. Per vehicle VMT divides VMT by the number of household vehicles available by residents of that geography in the same year. These three value types can be selected in the dropdown in the chart. Use the legend items to explore various geographies.Normalizing VMT by a county or region's population or by household vehicles is helpful for context but does not have complete parity with what is measured in VMT estimates. People and vehicles come into the region from other places, just as people and vehicles leave the region to visit other places. VMT per capita compares all miles traveled on the region's roads to the region's population (for all ages) from the U.S. Census Bureau's latest population estimates. Vehicle counts for VMT are classified by vehicle types but not by vehicle ownership. In 2017, statewide estimates for VMT by motorcycles, passenger cars, and two-axle single-unit trucks with four wheels made up 88% of Pennsylvania's VMT and 95% of New Jersey's. These vehicle types are highly likely to be personal vehicles, owned by households, but a slim margin could be fleet vehicles of companies or governments. The remaining VMT is made up of vehicle types like school and commercial buses and trucks with more than two axles, and/or more wheels, so they are highly likely to be commercial vehicles. The VMT per vehicle chart compares all roadway miles traveled to the count of vehicles available to the region's households from the American Community Survey.

_Note: In November, 2019, the Census Bureau issued [a statement acknowledging errors in 2017 ACS data for Philadelphia County](https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/acs/technical-documentation/errata/121.html). The error may impact the Miles Driven indicator for Philadelphia and regional aggregations, but only the VMT per vehicle values. DVRPC is aware of the issue and intends to update Tracking Progress with 2018 ACS data soon._