_People of color_ (defined using U.S. Census Bureau estimates of nonwhite population) and _Latinx_ persons, (defined using Census Bureau estimates of populations with Hispanic origins) can experience discrimination and be held back from opportunities in many facets of life. This indicator focuses on trends in income, labor force participation, and segregation of neighborhoods. These three measures recognize the key inclusion issues these groups can experience in the region's economy, communities, and access to opportunities. There are some limitations when using U.S. Census Bureau data for racial and ethnic analysis—particularly in the area of ethnicity. The American Community Survey (ACS), the decennial census, and other U.S. Census Bureau products only capture one ethnicity in the United States: Hispanic, Latino, or Spanish origin. Although recent attempts have been made to include Middle Eastern or North African as an ethnicity, this has not made its way onto U.S. Census Bureau surveys. For the purpose of simplicity and gender inclusion, this indicator uses the terms _Latinx_ and _non-Latinx_ in reference to people in or out of this ethnic group as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau data. Additionally, the race question on the ACS was revised in 2008 to make it consistent with the 2010 decennial census race question. This makes comparability with earlier years difficult.

Income was adjusted to 2017 dollars according to [U.S. Census Bureau guidance](https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/acs/guidance/comparing-acs-data/2017.html) on comparing income data from ACS one-year values with previous ACS releases and the 2000 decennial. Users should be aware that the 2000 decennial census asked about income from 1999, and the ACS asks respondents for income in the past 12 months. This means at least some of respondents' income will likely be received in the year prior to the year the respondent was surveyed.

Median income trends are found in the first and second chart. The first shows the difference, or gap, between people of color and Latinx vs Whites (non-Latinx); the second shows total median income trends for these groups. In order to estimate median income values at aggregate geographies—the DVRPC region, New Jersey counties, and Pennsylvania suburban counties—weighted averages of groups making up people of color and white, non-Latinx population were used across component counties.

Although county-level data is presented, counties with higher populations of people of color will have the most reliable estimates. Counties with fewer people of color will have larger margins of error and suspect results due to smaller sample sizes. One way this may manifest itself to _Tracking Progress_ users is in volatile trendlines in the charts. Some counties' income gap values are close to or below zero in one year and have larger swings in income gaps in prior and/or subsequent years. These tend to be counties with fewer people of color in their overall population. In 2017, the estimated percentage of people of color is as follows (in order of greatest to least):

1. Philadelphia County (65.5%);
2. Mercer County (50.8%);
3. Camden County (43.7%);
4. Delaware County (33.3%);
5. Burlington County (32.7%);
6. Montgomery County (24.4%);
7. Gloucester County (21.6%);
8. Chester County (20.6%); and
9. Bucks County (16.0%).

The Racial/Ethnic Segregation Index in the third chart is an indicator of how segregated the region's census tracts are, relative to the regional distribution of white, non-Latinx population and people of color and Latinx population. In a given year, it shows how dissimilar the racial and ethnic makeup of tracts across the region are to each other and demonstrates the percentage of the population that would theoretically need to relocate in order to match the region's racial and ethnic makeup.

Gaps in _labor force participation rates_ (percentage of those aged 16 to 64 years who are either employed or seeking work relative to all 16- to 64-year-olds) by race are examined in the fourth chart. Similarly, the actual participation rates of whites and people of color are seen in the fifth chart. Here, too, the population size of the people of color in each county that the ACS can draw from for a sample is important. It is possible for people of color to have a higher rate than whites, but trendlines that are highly variable from year to year are suspect. Gloucester, Bucks, and Chester counties' labor force participation data was not disclosed for these groups in the 2005 ACS one-year estimates as a result.

The Latinx population is so low in most of our region's counties that labor force participation rates were not disclosed for most years in most counties. Therefore, Latinx and non-Latinx are not presented.

_Note: In November, 2019, the Census Bureau issued [a statement acknowledging errors in 2017 ACS data for Philadelphia County](https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/acs/technical-documentation/errata/121.html). The error may impact the Racial & Ethnic Disparities indicator for Philadelphia and regional aggregations. DVRPC is aware of the issue and intends to update Tracking Progress with 2018 ACS data soon._