The latest air quality data from the US EPA shows the region is continuing to reduce ozone and PM<sub>2.5</sub> pollutants. Days violating National Ambient Air Quality Standards and the severity of those days have declined steadily over the past two decades. The 2021 five-year average (2017–2021) saw 67 fewer days per year violating standards than did the 2002 five-year average (1996–2000).

As seen in the first chart, from 2017 to 2021, the region has averaged just 16 days per year that would violate the current air quality standards. Although air quality is greatly influenced by weather conditions, long-term trends over the last 20 years show a dramatic decrease in days that violate national standards. Notably, the Covid-19 Pandemic reduced 2020 air quality violation days to the lowest levels seen since monitoring began, with only 8 violating days, due to an extreme drop in travel. 

The second chart shows that concentrations of both pollutants are decreasing in severity. The last Very Unhealthy day for ozone occurred in 2008; and the same for PM<sub>2.5</sub>. Ozone violations are more common than PM<sub>2.5</sub>, thanks to great strides made to reduce PM<sub>2.5</sub> levels through power plant and diesel-powered engine regulations. Ozone is particularly seasonal--with violations occurring in the second and third quarters of the year, due to its heat-induced production.

The dramatic declines in unhealthy air quality days over the past few decades show the impact federal standards have had in reducing emissions, along with greater public awareness of pollutants and ways to lessen their impact. However, climate change may counter the progress the nation has made in improving air quality, as higher temperatures increase the potential for forming ground-level ozone, resulting in more days that violate national standards.