The latest air quality data from the US EPA shows the region is continuing to reduce ozone and PM<sub>2.5</sub> pollutants. Although air quality is greatly influenced by weather conditions, days violating National Ambient Air Quality Standards and the severity of those days have declined steadily over the past two decades. The 2022 five-year average (2018–2022) had 62 fewer days per year that violated standards than did the 2002 five-year average (1998–2002)—the peak of the period shown.

The first chart shows that from 2018 to 2022 the region has averaged just 12 days per year that violate current air quality standards. In 2020 an extreme drop in travel during the Covid-19 Pandemic saw just 8 air quality violation days, the lowest level recorded up to that point. After a rebound near 2019 levels in 2021, 2022 set a new record for fewest days, with only 4 air quality violations.

The second chart shows that concentrations of both pollutants are decreasing in severity. The last Very Unhealthy day for both ozone and PM<sub>2.5</sub> occurred in 2008. Ozone violations are more common than PM<sub>2.5</sub>, thanks to advances made to reduce PM<sub>2.5</sub> levels through power plant and diesel-powered engine regulations. Ozone is particularly seasonal—with violations occurring primarily in the second and third quarters of the year, due to higher levels of heat and sunlight in those periods. 2022 was the first year without any PM<sub>2.5</sub> violations and the fourth year where there were no code red Unhealthy or above days.

Federal standards have had a dramatic effect in reducing emissions and unhealthy air quality days over the past few decades. Public health has benefitted from greater awareness of pollutants and ways to lessen their impact. However, climate change may counter the progress the nation has made in improving air quality, as higher temperatures increase the potential for forming ground-level ozone, which is likely to result in more days that violate national standards.
