The five-year average for new business applications in the Greater Philadelphia region increased from 44,445 to 80,152 business formations per year from 2009 to 2022—an 80% increase. In 2022, there were more than 85,600 business formations in the region. This was down slightly from the 2021 peak of 105,761, but still represents a 97.1% increase compared to 2005 levels. After a Great Recession decline, annual business formations exceeded 2007 levels in 2015 and rose steadily through 2019—before the unprecedented growth stemming from economic shifts during  the COVID-19 pandemic. Years 2020 and 2021 saw successive, record-breaking business formations, with annual applications 66% higher in 2021 than 2019.

In the region, Philadelphia has led the business application growth trend: it never had fewer formations than the first year tracked (2005) and, since 2008, its difference from its 2005 levels has been at least double the relative levels of the region’s New Jersey counties and other Pennsylvania counties. Looking at annual totals, Philadelphia surpassed the total formations of all four New Jersey counties combined in 2015 and then overshot the suburban Pennsylvania counties’ totals in 2020. Its five-year average in 2022 was 181% higher than in 2009. Delaware County was the next best performer in average percentage difference since 2009. It was 89% higher in 2022.

Unlike the Great Recession, the pandemic recession appears to have accelerated the pre-pandemic trend in more new business formations. This may point to a real shift in economic adaptability and could be partly spurred by the increased options for business operations brought on by the broader adoption of remote work. [A study](https://www.nber.org/papers/w28912) found that startups in recent years tend to be personal businesses, rather than companies employing multiple workers. It also points out the Great Recession was marked by poor access to credit with adverse effects on small business lending. This was much less of an issue during the pandemic recession and supported the large rise in business applications.

While recent trends suggest economic health and resiliency, time will tell whether the pandemic-era shifts will remain. 2022 showed some pull-back in business registrations, but they are still historically high even as the tumult of the pandemic economy seemed to somewhat stabilize, relative to the prior two years.