While the absolute numbers of building permits issued in the entire region per year are fewer than in 1999, the proportion of building permits issued in Core Cities and Development Communities in 2018 has increased by 29.8% to 63.6% of all permits issued. Since 2012 the annual percentage of residential building permits being approved in Core Cities and Developed Communities has risen to over 60% of all approvals—levels not seen since the early 1980s. This figure peaked at 69.3% in 2014 and has subsequently remained high with 63.5% of units approved in 2018. The late 1990s and early 2000s saw the lowest proportion of approvals in these smart growth areas, as units built drifted to municipalities categorized as Growing Suburbs and Rural Areas.

The cumulative option in the dropdown menu shows units approved since 1980. Since reaching a low point of 46.1% of permits issued in Core Cities and Developed Communities in 2003, increased permitting rates have brought the percentage to 49.4%. Despite the increase in the rate of permits issued in more recent years in Core Cities and Developed Communities, the cumulative effect of prior development preferences has been hard to overcome. That is due in part to the declining number of total permits and the legacy of permits issued in Growing Suburbs and Rural areas in the earlier decades of this dataset.

Total permits approved are seen in Charts 2 and 3. The peak year for approving units in the region came in 1986 with close to 30,000 units approved. The most recent recession brought approvals to just 20% of those peak levels in 2009 with 6,182 approved that year. The year 2018 had 12,075 units approved, showing that approvals have doubled since the slowest years but housing activity is clearly not what it once was in the region.

Chart 3 shows a waning interest in single-family development that dominated small and large multifamily development structures until more recent years. The year 2018 saw nearly identical single-family (5,561) and large multifamily (5,562) approvals and an additional 952 small multifamily units. But the cumulative effects of decades of single-family preference means that more than 75% of units approved from 1980 to 2018 were single family.