From 2006 to 2021, commuters living in the region have increasingly used alternative options relative to driving alone to work—the non-SOV commute share has increased by 13.6%. Commuters working in the region have seen their non-SOV share increase by 13.8% in the same period. While the region had been on an upward trend for non-SOV use, progress was slow until the Covid-19 Pandemic. No 2020 1yr ACS data for commute mode was reported due to the pandemic, but 2021 showed more than a 10% drop from 2019 levels—unpresented for a previously nearly flat trend. This was largely due to Worked from Home’s gain of 15% share in those two years. Still, 60% of commutes being Drove Alone leaves a lot of single-occupancy vehicles on the road and it’s hard to say where the telework trend will head for 2022 and beyond.

The second chart shows trends in modes that contribute to non-SOV totals. Beyond Worked from Home, all other non-SOV modes dropped or flatlined between 2019 and 2021. Carpooling has steadily declined from 9.0% in 2006 to 7.9% in 2019 and dropped further to 6.4% in 2021. Public transit had gained in share from 9.4% in 2006 to 10% or more in the last decade, then was cut in half by 2021.. Various rail modes proproped up the positive trends of last decade, against some bus declines, but all saw significant drops in 2021. Regionally, walking bike commuters were fairly steady prior to their pandemic drops. In the Tax, Motorcycle, or Other category, only Other Means saw gains between 2019 and 2021. Telecommuters had been on a steady climb, but claiming 15% more commute share in two years is a striking trend that DVRPC will continue to monitor.