From 2006 to 2022, commuters _living_ in the region have increasingly used alternative options relative to driving alone to work—the non-SOV commute share has increased by 11.2%. Commuters _working_ in the region have seen their non-SOV share increase by 11.1% in the same period. While the region had been on an upward trend for non-SOV use, progress was slow prior to the COVID-19 Pandemic. No 2020 1-year ACS data for commute mode was reported due to the pandemic, but 2022 showed an unprecedented drop of more than 10% from 2019 levels. This was largely due to the 13% gain in ‘Worked from Home’ over those three years, with telecommuting representing nearly a fifth of all commutes in 2022. However, ‘Drove Alone’ represents 54% of commutes, meaning a lot of single-occupancy vehicles (SOV) are still on the road and it’s hard to project where the telework trend will go in 2023 and beyond.

The second chart shows trends in modes that contribute to non-SOV totals. Beyond ‘Worked from Home’, all other non-SOV modes dropped or flatlined between 2019 and 2022. Carpooling has steadily declined from 9.0% in 2006 to 7.9% in 2019 and dropped further to 7.0% in 2022. Public transit had gained in share from 9.4% in 2006 to 10% or more in the last decade—thanks to increases in rail ridership above slight declines in bus ridership—then fell by almost 40% by 2022. Regionally, walking and bike commuters were fairly steady prior to their pandemic drops. In the Taxi, Motorcycle, or Other category, only Other Means saw substantial gains between 2019 and 2022. This could indicate a rise in ride-hailing services.
