The American Community Survey (ACS) reports household income by the average of each income quintile, median value for householder’s racial and ethnic group, and median value for workers by sex. The following charts show the gap for each of these groups, and then comparisons by total income. 

A _quintile_ is any fifth of households sorted from least to greatest income. The first quintile is the bottom 20% of households by income, the second quintile contains households between 20% and 40% of income (the next 20%), and so on. The fifth quintile is the top 20% of households by income. Within this group, and also reported in the ACS, is the top 5% of households. The first chart reports the gap (or difference) between the percent change in mean income for the first (lowest income) and fifth (highest income) quintiles since the 2006 base year. The second chart displays all quintiles, along with the top 5% of households. The ‘All’ trendline shows the average for all households across the five quintiles. Toggle between the average income of each set of households, as well as the change and the percent change in those incomes since 2006. 

Gaps in household median income by the racial and ethnic group of the householder are examined in the third chart. Each householder’s racial or ethnic group’s median income, change, and percent change since 2000 appear in the fourth chart. The _People of Color (POC)_ householder trendline comprises any racial or ethnic group that is not white alone, non-Latinx. _Latinx_ represents those who identify as Hispanic or Latino origin in the ACS. There is some disagreement with including Latinx populations among POC demographics, as some Latinx individuals may list their race as white. In the Greater Philadelphia region, only 1.7% of the Latinx population identified as white in the 2020 Census. This population has been included in the POC demographic group for income disparity analysis. When their data are not suppressed due to small sample size in the ACS, some POC component groups appear with their own trendlines: Black, non-Latinx; Asian, non-Latinx; and Latinx. POC groups that aren’t large enough in most counties to show a consistent trend, such as Native Americans or those with two or more races, are not shown.

The fifth chart shows the difference, or gap, between male and female incomes, varying by the value type selected (gap or percent gap). The sixth chart shows total median earnings trends for both male and female persons. The U.S Census Bureau’s survey questions limit explorations of sex and gender to a binary scale that suits neither sex nor gender. The ACS asks "What is Person[x]'s sex?" and offers two check boxes: male or female. Sex is a term referring to a person's anatomical characteristics. The binary choice in the survey leaves out intersex and trans individuals. Gender refers to a person's identity. People may identify with the gender assigned to them at birth (cisgender), a different gender (transgender), or gender non-conforming, genderqueer, gender fluid, or non-binary identities. Since the survey refers to sex, we use the same term, recognizing it has limits. The term sex is also in line with the protections against discrimination based on sex found in the [Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1973](https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/23/324)—a law DVRPC must comply with as a public agency receiving federal funds.

To create estimates of median or average income or earnings values for groups and geographies not reported by the Census Bureau, weighted averages of these values were used. For aggregate geographies, such as the 9-county region, component county values were weighted by an associated universe. Household average income quintiles were weighted by each county’s total households in the value’s year. Median earnings for sex were weighted by the employed population of each group in their respective counties. Median income by householder race or ethnicity was weighted by the count of households with householders in the respective group. Similarly, to estimate an aggregate POC householders’ median household income value, householder counts within each component group of POC of each county were used as the weight. For householder racial or ethnic group data, the 1-year ACS did not consistently report each group, as some estimates were suppressed due to sample size. 5-year estimates of householder racial or ethnic group counts were used as weights, as they were not missing any values. The middle year of the 5-year estimate of householder racial or ethnic groups was matched to the 1-year estimate year for median income (e.g. 2013–2017 weights would pair with 2015 income), where possible.

Particularly for counties with smaller populations, or for those quintiles or racial or ethnic groups within a county where the ACS sample size was small, trendlines are subject to more variability, as the data is less reliable. Users should use caution when interpreting results.

Income was adjusted to 2022 dollars using the [CPI-U-RS factors for all items](https://www.bls.gov/cpi/research-series/r-cpi-u-rs-home.htm) published each year, consistent with the [U.S. Census Bureau guidance](https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/acs/guidance/comparing-acs-data/2017.html) on comparing income data from ACS one-year values with previous ACS releases. Users should be aware that the ACS asks respondents for income in the past 12 months. Because surveys run year-round, at least some of respondents' income will likely be received in the year prior to the year the respondent was surveyed, making inflation adjustments slightly more muddled than if the survey had asked for income from the prior calendar year.

_Note: The Census Bureau issued [a statement acknowledging errors in 2017 ACS data for Philadelphia County](https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/acs/technical-documentation/errata/121.html). Philadelphia estimates for geography of residence are omitted as a result, but the error may impact the regional aggregations. Also note, the 2020 one-year ACS was not released due to disruptions of the COVID-19 pandemic._