In 2023, there were 1,969 KSI in the region. This was lower than the region’s peak of 2,364 during the pandemic in 2021, but notably higher than the region’s lowest count of 1,227 in 2014. The region has seen a similar trend in both KSI per 100,000 people and KSI per 100 million VMT. 

The rate of crash fatalities and serious injuries is not evenly distributed throughout the region. For instance, the KSI rate per capita in Philadelphia in 2023 was 45.9% higher than that of the suburban New Jersey counties.

Since bicyclists and pedestrians are especially vulnerable, crashes involving these modes are of special concern. Fatalities and serious injuries suffered by bicyclists and pedestrians consistently made up between 18 and 23% of the regional KSI totals between 2006 and 2022, but in 2023, they made up 26% of the total. Bicycle and pedestrian KSI is also not evenly distributed throughout the region. In Philadelphia, where biking and walking are more common, bicyclists and pedestrians made up 36–45% of the regional annual bike and pedestrian KSI from 2006–2023. This rate was only 21–37% in the New Jersey counties, and 24-39% in the suburban Pennsylvania counties. 

Transit safety has improved significantly over the last two decades, with 447 KSI in 2023 across all transit modes and agencies in the region. This sets a new low for this indicator for the years in this dataset. Passenger injuries have always made up the lion’s share of transit KSI. For example, passenger injuries made up 85.8% of transit KSI in the region in 2023.

Transit agency employee injuries across all modes and agencies in the region were 4.3 per 200,000 employee-work-hours in 2022. This measure peaked in 2018, then decreased to its lowest level in this dataset in 2020—during pandemic shutdowns. Regionwide, there has been a 15.7% decrease since 2009, a 35.8% decrease since 2018, but a 79.2% increase since 2020. 

Similar trends were also seen with the number of people killed and injured per 100,000 transit vehicle-revenue-miles. There was a notable peak of 20.5 KSI per 100,000 vehicle-revenue-miles across all transit modes and agencies in the region in 2009, which then fell by roughly a fifth to 4.2 in 2012. The measure then more than doubled to 9.6 in 2016, and almost halved again to 4.5 in 2020 during the pandemic. Finally, the measure increased to 5.2 in 2023.

Transit safety events peaked at 9,452 across all transit modes and agencies in the region in 2006 in the years included in this indicator. Since then, counts have been much lower, with an all-time low of 545 in 2011, a slight resurgence of 1,560 in 2016, and a return to 568 in 2023. This final count is a 95.9% decrease from the 2006 peak, and roughly a third of the 2016 count.