The metric most commonly used to measure roadway safety is “People killed or Seriously Injured” (KSI), which refers to the total number of individuals who either died or sustained severe injuries in a traffic collision, and is promoted by the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), and embraced by both NJDOT and PennDOT. Starting in 2019, the definition of “serious injuries” was changed to “Suspected Serious Injuries”. Since KSI can fluctuate from year to year, five-year rolling averages are used to identify trends. When reporting five-year rolling averages, *Tracking Progress* assigns the value to the final year of the period, see the first chart. The data also separates pedestrians and bicyclists from motor vehicle occupants, because these users are more vulnerable to death or serious injury when involved in a crash. For data on combined motor vehicle and bicyclist or pedestrian KSI, see the second chart.

KSI can be analyzed as a raw total number, or normalized based on population (i.e., per capita), or based on vehicle miles traveled (i.e., per VMT). To align with Regional Vision Zero goals, *Tracking Progress* uses total KSI as the lead indicator. Normalizing per 100 million VMT is a federal standard, as it can identify risks relative to the amount of driving. The per capita measure is meant to remove the hidden exposure risk, and underscores the fact that driving more miles increases one’s overall risk of being involved in a fatal crash. 

The Pennsylvania crash data comes from PennDOT. The New Jersey crash data up to 2022 comes from NJDOT. For New Jersey’s 2023 figures, fatalities originate from NJ State Police Statistics Reports, and serious injuries are estimated. These datasets, and targets for future performance, are reported each year to FHWA as part of Transportation Performance Management (TPM) requirements. 

Each year, transit agencies have to fulfill the Federal Transit Agency’s (FTA) TPM requirements by reporting data to the FTA’s National Transit Database (NTD) on passengers who are killed and injured (regardless of severity) on their services, employees who are injured at work, and safety events. 

Transit fatalities are defined as deaths confirmed within thirty days, excluding deaths from trespassing and suicide. SEPTA includes fatalities from trespassers and suicides in their TPM reporting and target setting, while New Jersey Transit and PATCO do not. To use consistent data for all three transit agencies, trespassing deaths and suicides are included in this analysis. 

Transit injuries are defined as harm to a person which requires immediate medical attention away from the scene. While crime-related injuries are reported to the NTD, they are excluded from the injury performance target. As with fatalities, these are included in the analysis for data consistency. The third table below shows employee injuries per 200,000 work hours, which is also a TPM requirement.

Major safety events include collisions, derailments, fires, hazardous material spills, or evacuations. Major security events are excluded from this analysis, per federal guidance.