Overall, the five-year average dropped by 16% from 2010 to 2017. However, this is an increase from the 2015 five-year average of people killed or seriously injured in crashes. After steadily declining from a high of 1,735 KSI in 2010, the region's rate began to increase in 2015, going from 1,421 to 1,457 in 2017, an increase of 2.5%.

The region has seen a similar trend in both KSI per 100,000 people and KSI per 100 million VMT. The five-year per capita average went from 31.1 to 25.5 and the miles driven average decreased from a high of 4.3 in 2010 to a low of 3.6 in 2015 before rising slightly to 3.7 in both 2016 and 2017.

Examining annual totals, the 1,664 people killed or seriously injured in 2017 was the highest total in the region since 2007. Whether this is the start of an upward trend or just the variation expected in annual data is yet to be seen.

The rate of crash fatalities and serious injuries is not evenly distributed throughout the region. For instance, the KSI rate per 100 million VMT in Philadelphia in 2017 was 50% higher than in the suburban Pennsylvania counties and more than twice the rate of the suburban New Jersey counties.

Because bicyclists and pedestrians are especially vulnerable when involved in crashes, fatalities among those populations are of special concern. Unfortunately, bicyclist and pedestrian KSI is rising in the region. Fatalities and serious injuries suffered by bicyclists and pedestrians have consistently made up between 20 and 22% of the regional totals. Although the percentage of bicyclist and pedestrian KSI somewhat decreased between 2010 and 2015, the trend reversed in 2016 and 2017. As the total KSI for the region has increased, so has the bicyclist and pedestrian KSI, reaching 2010 levels (350) in 2017. Bicycle and pedestrian KSI is also not evenly distributed throughout the region. In Philadelphia, where biking and walking are more common, bicyclists and pedestrians were 30–37% of the annual KSI from 2007–2017, while this rate was only 16–22% in the suburban New Jersey counties and only 10–18% in the suburban Pennsylvania counties.