People killed or seriously injured (KSI) is used as the metric for roadway safety rather than simply fatalities because fatalities alone tend to be random in nature and can obscure long-term trends. Including serious injuries makes the data more robust and better highlights how the region is doing at preventing serious vehicle crashes. This approach has been promoted by the FHWA and embraced by both NJDOT and PennDOT. Because KSI can fluctuate from year to year, five-year rolling averages are used to identify trends, as seen in the first chart. When reporting five-year rolling averages, _Tracking Progress_ assigns the value to the final year of the period for reporting the data in the first chart. The data also separates pedestrians and bicyclists from motor vehicle occupants because these users are more vulnerable to death or serious injury when involved in a crash. Data for motor vehicle and combined bicyclist and pedestrian KSI is reported in the second chart.

KSI can be looked at as a raw total, normalized based on population (per capita), or based on vehicle miles driven (per VMT). To align with Vision Zero goals, total KSI is used as the lead indicator because having no deaths or serious injuries is more important than having fewer relative to the population size or miles driven. Normalizing per 100 million VMT is a federal standard. It can identify where the risk of death or serious injury is especially high or low relative to the amount of driving. Per capita is meant to remove the hidden exposure risk that can occur when you normalize the number of fatalities by VMT. By identifying fatalities per person rather than per mile driven, it underscores the fact that driving more miles increases the overall risk of being involved in a fatal crash.