Achieving a more livable region means making our roads safe for all users. Our transportation system must evolve to accommodate all users safely, so that an improving economy (and its accompanying increases in vehicle miles traveled [VMT]) does not result in an increase in crash fatalities and injuries as a byproduct. Vehicle crashes are currently the single leading cause of death in the United States for all persons between eight and 24 years of age. Recently, Philadelphia adopted a Vision Zero policy, joining an international movement that approaches traffic safety from the perspective that no loss of life is acceptable. The New Jersey Department of Transportation (NJDOT) and Pennsylvania Department of Transportation (PennDOT) have each adopted Toward Zero Deaths policies.

Beyond the obvious trauma and sorrow that result from a fatal crash, traffic fatalities also have significant economic costs to the region. The Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) estimates that there is a cost of approximately $11.3 million per fatality and $655,000 per serious injury resulting from a crash. Between 2012 and 2016, there were over 7,000 people killed or seriously injured in the region, totaling over $3.9 billion in economic costs.

The impacts of crashes are also not felt equally by all residents in the region. Many severe vehicle crashes are focused in areas where roadway design enables high speeds and there are large concentrations of carless households, where people are more likely to travel by foot or by bike. These areas also tend to be where populations of potential disadvantage, such as racial minorities or low-income individuals, live. This puts these populations at higher risk of being killed or seriously injured in a crash. Beyond just reducing the overall instances of crashes resulting in deaths or serious injuries, the region also has an obligation to ensure that potentially disadvantaged communities don't bear an unequal share of the burden caused by these crashes.