The job growth rate in the Greater Philadelphia region has been positive for 18 the 21 years between 2001 and 2022. In the three years of no or negative job growth that occurred over this period: 2009 had a 2.3% decline as a result of the Great Recession, 2010 had flat 0% job growth at the start of the long recovery out of the Great Recession, and 2020 had a steeper 4.3% decrease when Covid-19 brought the world to a halt. It took more than three years for the total jobs to surpass 2008 levels (as shown in the cumulative trendline with the Since Base Year value type selected). The 2020 losses were largely recovered within a year. By 2022, the number of jobs in the region had increased by 25.2% relative to 2001. Only 2019 (19.3%) and 2021 (18.8%) showed more growth from the same base year. From 2001–2022, the region underperformed relative to national job growth (28.3% nationally versus 25.2% regionally), but outperformed Pennsylvania (25.2% regionally vs 15.4% statewide), New Jersey (25.2% regionally vs 23.6% statewide), and the Mid-Atlantic region in general (25.2% regionally vs 21.8% in the Mid-Atlantic).

Proprietorships make up a small fraction of total regional employment, but have seen significant gains (119.7% over 21 years), while Wage and Salary jobs have only seen modest ones (10.86% over the same period). As a result, the share of regional employment from Proprietorships went from 13% in 2001 to 23% in 2022. While Proprietorship growth rates were significant in every county, regional employment of this type was largely driven by the 244% growth of Proprietorship employment in Philadelphia. This growth indicates a rise in entrepreneurial activity and jobs adapting to changing trends in how people participate in the economy.

While job growth was rather evenly distributed throughout the region's nine counties, two counties have an outsized share of the region’s employment, as evidenced by the second chart. Almost 45% of all jobs in the region were in Philadelphia (25%) and Montgomery (19%) counties in 2022.

Among the 14 sector groupings shown in the third chart, Professional, Scientific, and Technical Services had the largest share of employment from 2001 to 2022, and had the fourth largest share increase (1.9%) between those years. The Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate industry had the largest increase in share of total jobs (3.8%), and went from fourth to third place among all sectors’ ranking of job totals. With steady significant gains starting in 2015, the Transportation, Warehousing, and Utilities sector gained 2.8%, and jumped ahead of the greatest number of sectors in the rankings, going from 12th to 7th place. The largest decrease in employment sectors was Manufacturing (3.9%), dropping it from 5th to 10th place in total sector share. Public Administration lost about 3% share in the regional sectoral makeup, and Retail Trade lost about 2%.