The U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis’ Total Full-Time and Part-Time Employment data provides one of the most comprehensive, publicly available accountings of average annual employment. Beyond full- and part-time employment types, it includes industries that aren’t always included in other sources, such as Public Administration. It also includes and distinguishes both _Wage and Salary_ employees from _Proprietors _who own their own unincorporated businesses, and handle taxation chiefly as personal income. Proprietors tend to be single-person or small businesses, and can include construction or repair workers, babysitters, ride-share drivers, artists, local grocers, housekeepers, various freelancers and consultants, and some attorneys and doctors. 

The first chart shows the annual growth rate and the overall growth rate since the 2001 base year, as well as total employment of all workers, wage and salary workers, and proprietors. The second chart shows the percentage of the region's jobs located in each county. The third chart shows the percentage of jobs that occur in various sectors of the region's economy. 

_Note: The figures in the Job Distribution by Industry chart do not always add up to 100%, because some industries’ job estimates were suppressed for some geographies and years to avoid disclosure of confidential information. Transportation, Warehousing, and Utilities, and Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing, and Mining, are industries which most often had suppressed job estimates._ 