In just 11 years, the growth rate between the lowest and highest quintile income households has diverged by 25%, regionally. First-quintile households' income averaged $16,576 a year in 2006 and dropped by $1,991, or 13.7%, to $14,585 by 2017. Meanwhile, the fifth-quintile average income went from $221,835 a year to $250,205 a year, a gain of over $28,000—almost twice as much as the average first-quintile household made in 2017—or 11.3% of what they yielded in 2006. In this same period, the average second-quintile household also lost income ($1,776, or 4.3%, since 2006), and the average third-quintile household's annual intake was stagnant.

All groups were impacted by the Great Recession, but the highest earners had a shorter period of losses and quickly recovered. By 2010, all quintiles made the same or less than they had in 2006, but it only took the highest quintile until 2012 to recoup those losses. It took the fourth quintile until 2015. The third quintile barely surpassed 2006 income by 2017, and the second and first don't show signs of recovery, at least in the near term. The first quintile seemed to be recovering from 2012 to 2015 but then had two steep drops in 2016 and 2017, resulting in their lowest income in the entire period.

In 2017, a family was just as likely to live near a family of a similar income level as they were in 1990. Income segregation in the region has been stagnant for the last three decades. Comparing the concentrations of low income households to the rest of the households in each tract relative to the region's overall income split, the income segregation index shows that, theoretically, 42% of the region's population would have to relocate in order to see an even distribution of low-income households throughout the region.