The American Community Survey (ACS) reports household income by the average of each income quintile. A _quintile_ is any fifth of households sorted from least to greatest income. The first quintile is bottom 20% of households by income, the second quintile contains households between 20 and 40 percentiles of income (the next 20%), and so on. The fifth quintile is the top 20% of households by income. Within this group, and also reported in the ACS, is the top 5% of households. The first chart reports the gap (or difference) between the percent change in mean income for the first (lowest income) and fifth (highest income) quintiles since the 2006 base year. The second chart displays all quintiles, along with the top 5% of households (the top end of the fifth quintile). Toggle between the average income of each set of households, as well as the change and the percentage change in those incomes since 2006. Particularly for counties with smaller populations, or for those quintiles within a county where the ACS got a poor sample in a given year, trendlines will be subject to more variability due to data reliability issues. Users should use caution when interpreting results.

Income was adjusted to 2017 dollars according to [U.S. Census Bureau guidance](https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/acs/guidance/comparing-acs-data/2017.html) on comparing income data from ACS one-year values with previous ACS releases. Users should be aware that the ACS asks respondents for income in the past 12 months. This means that at least some of respondents' income will likely be received in the year prior to the year the respondent was surveyed, making inflation adjustments slightly more muddled than if the survey had asked for income from the prior calendar year the way the decennial census used to.

The Income Segregation Index in the third chart is an indicator of how segregated the region's census tracts are, relative to the regional distribution of low-income households versus the rest. _Low-income_ is defined as households below 200% of the federal poverty rate. In a given year, it shows how dissimilar the income makeups of census tracts across the region are to each other and demonstrates what percentage of the population would need to relocate in order to match the regional income distribution. The higher the index value the more geographic concentrations of wealth or poverty exist in the region. The index uses decennial census tract data for 1990 and 2000. The ACS five-year period estimates for subsequent tract analysis, reporting the final year of the period as the data year (e.g., 2010 is a period estimate for 2006–2010, based on households surveyed in those years).

_Note: In November, 2019, the Census Bureau issued [a statement acknowledging errors in 2017 ACS data for Philadelphia County](https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/acs/technical-documentation/errata/121.html). The error may impact the Income Disparities indicator for Philadelphia and regional aggregations. DVRPC is aware of the issue and intends to update Tracking Progress with 2018 ACS data soon._