The Greater Philadelphia economy more than doubled in size over two decades, with GDP rising from $261 million to $536 million--a 105% increase. While that’s a strong rate, it is between the growth rates of the region’s two states--New Jersey’s economy increased by 99% and Pennsylvania by 116% in the same period. Meanwhile, the US economy grew by 141%. In those 20 years, four counties exceeded the regional growth rate: Chester County (130%), Mercer County (128%), Philadelphia (114%, and Gloucester County (106%). All four saw growth in Services and Government and Government Enterprises. Mercer was the only one with significant Goods growth, stemming from a large boost to Non-Durable Goods Manufacturing in 2019, 2020 and 2021.

Consistently, the largest industry contributing to Greater Philadelphia’s overall GDP is Finance, Insurance, and Real Estate. It’s stayed consistently around 20-22% of GDP. Professional Services had a significant 13.3% share of the region’s GDP in 2001, but by 2021 it increased to a 17.2% share. While Manufacturing saw declines from 2001 to 2012 (12.5 to 7.5% share), it rebounded somewhat thereafter, with a 10.6% share in 2021. The Arts, Entertainment, Recreation, Food, and Accomodations sector was the most impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020 but was largely recovered by 2021.

The rankings of which counties have contributed most to the regional GDP over the period from 2001 to 2021 has stayed largely unchanged. The top three--Philadelphia with 25-28% share, Montgomery with 19-21% share, and Chester with 10-11% share--added up to at least 55% of GDP for all 20 years. The region’s Pennsylvania counties have an outsized influence on the economy, contributing nearly 75% of GDP for 20 years straight.