The Greater Philadelphia economy grew slightly over the last several years, with GDP rising from $477 billion in 2017 to $492 billion in 2022—a 3.1% increase. This is about half as much as New Jersey’s increase of 6.8% and about one-third the national growth rate of 9.6%. It is, however, more than 3 times Pennsylvania’s 0.9% growth over the same period, according to Bureau of Economic Analysis data (not shown in the charts below). In those 5 years, four counties exceeded the regional growth rate: Mercer County (27.7%), Gloucester County (7.8%), Burlington County (7.6%), and Montgomery County (6.6%). All four of these counties saw growth in Health care and social assistance; Information; Manufacturing; Retail trade; Transportation, warehousing, and utilities; and Wholesale trade. By far, the biggest increase overall was a 241.4% growth in Manufacturing in Mercer County, and a 211.5% growth in the Transportation, warehousing, and utilities industry in Gloucester County. These numbers follow more specific trends in each county. Mercer County has seen a [growth in biotech manufacturing](https://njbmagazine.com/monthly-articles/mercer-county-marvels/) in recent years, and the rise in e-commerce, specifically, has led to [more companies building warehouses in Gloucester County](https://www.gloucestercountynj.gov/DocumentCenter/View/616/Location-Key-to-County-Role-PDF) due to its optimal location.

The three counties with the highest shares of regional GDP—Philadelphia with 25-27%, Montgomery with 20%, and Chester with 11%—accounted for at least 57% of GDP for all 5 years from 2017 to 2022. The region’s Pennsylvania counties, overall, have an outsized influence on the economy, contributing 73-76% of the region’s GDP for 20 years straight.

The largest industry contributing to Greater Philadelphia’s overall GDP is Finance, insurance, and real estate, staying consistently around 19-22% of GDP. The Professional, scientific, and technical services sector has grown from 16.2% share of the region’s GDP in 2017, to a 17.0% share in 2022. Manufacturing has steadily been growing in the region after years of decline, going from 8.5% in 2017 to 10.4% in 2022. The Arts, entertainment, rec., food, and accommodations sector was, unsurprisingly, the most impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, but it had recovered by 2022.

Using BEA data for comparison (data not shown on charts below), the region’s GDP per capita was $83,736 in 2022, which was 1.03 times more than the 2022 New Jersey GDP per capita at $81,513, 1.08 times more than the 2022 national GDP per capita at $77,243, and 1.19 times more than the 2022 Pennsylvania GDP per capita at $70,291. Like with overall GDP, the industry with the highest GDP per capita in the region from 2017-2022 was Finance, insurance, and real estate, with $16,000-$18,000 per capita and the industry with the second highest GDP per capita in the region was Professional, scientific, and technical services, with $13,500-$14,500 per capita. Manufacturing had the biggest increase in GDP per capita in the region during that period, increasing by 22.7%, most likely due to the growth in biotech manufacturing in Mercer County during that time. Agriculture, forestry, fishing, and mining had the biggest decrease during that period, dropping by 33.0%, though this may be more a result of data availability than a measure of what actually happened. Mercer County had the highest GDP per capita in the region in 2022 at $130,344, and Gloucester County had the smallest GDP per capita in the region in 2022 at $56,551.