Greater Philadelphia’s gap between male and female labor force participation rates has closed some, since 2005. Male participation was 11.8% higher than female in 2005 but down to 6.5% higher in 2021, a drop of 5.3%. As seen in the second chart, the regional male participation rate was 83.3% and the female participation rate was 76.8% in 2021. The counties closing the gap the most were Burlington, Montgomery, and Philadelphia counties—down 7.2%, 6.3%, and 6.2%, respectively. Closing the least in the period were Gloucester (0.2% drop), Delaware (3.2% drop), and Bucks (4% drop) counties. In 2021, two counties had male to female participation gaps that were still greater than 10%: Chester (11.2%) and Gloucester (11.0%). The counties with the smallest gaps by sex were Philadelphia (2.6%), Burlington (5.6%), and Montgomery (5.7%) counties.

Nationally, the Covid-19 pandemic created greater job losses for women than men and recovery was slower. 2020 ACS estimates were not produced due to pandemic disruptions, but between 2019 and 2021 the male and female labor force participation rate gap was steady. There’s a different story to be told on either side of the Delaware River. Pennsylvania counties’ gaps generally dropped. New Jersey counties saw gaps widen, particularly in Gloucester County where the gap went from 6.5% to 11%. Due to its smaller population to sample, ACS data quality can suffer in Gloucester County. Trendlines can be more volatile as a result. The next data release will lend a better understanding of longer term trends.

As seen in the fourth chart, by 2021, white labor force participation rates were lower than the other racial and ethnic groups or second lowest in most counties. Only Philadelphia had white participation rates higher than all other groups and white participation rate was 2nd highest in both Gloucester and Camden counties. 

The labor force participation rate gap between the region’s white alone, non-Latinx population, and People of Color (POC) has also decreased in recent years. For POC it dropped 3.1%, from 4.9% higher participation rates for whites to 1.8% higher rates. Broken out into individual racial and ethnic groupings, it’s clear the remaining gap is driven by the greater gap between white and Black, non-Latinx participation rates. However, that too improved over the period, dropping from 6.8% in 2006 to 4.3%. Asian, non-Latinx to white and Latinx to white labor force participation gaps show more volatile trends due to their smaller portion of the regional population and sampling challenges, but from 2006 to 2021 Asian, Latinx went from 0.9% to 0.5% and Latinx went from 3.4% to -0.2%. 

Philadelphia’s gap has been widening. The POC gap from white went from 2% in 2006 to 6.8% in 2021. The Black, non-Latinx to white gap went from 2.7% in 2006 to 8.5% in 2021. The 2020 Census shows Philadelphia has a 43% share of the region’s POC population and 54% of its Black population. That is why its trends counterbalance the lack of gaps seen in outlying counties.