Labor force participation rate is a measure of the active workforce. It is the total number of those employed or actively seeking employment divided by the total working age population, however, from the U.S. Census Bureau’s American Community Survey (ACS), the universe for the working age population considered varies considerably. For participation rates by sex, the population used is 20 to 64 years old. For race and ethnic groupings, the age range is 16 and older. As a result of the narrower age range the rates by sex are higher than those by race.

The first chart displays the gap in participation rate between male and female persons and the second chart shows the percentage of participation for each group. The U.S Census Bureau’s survey questions limit explorations of sex and gender in a binary scale that suits neither sex nor gender. The ACS asks "What is Person[x]'s sex?" and offers two check boxes: male or female. Sex is a term referring to a person's anatomical characteristics. The binary choice in the survey leaves out intersex and trans individuals. Gender refers to a person's identity. People may identify with the gender assigned to them at birth (cisgender), a different gender (transgender), or gender non-conforming, genderqueer, gender fluid, or non-binary identities. Since the survey refers to sex, we use the same term, knowing it has limits. The term sex is also in line with the protections against discrimination based on sex found in the [Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1973](https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/23/324)—a law DVRPC must comply with as a public agency receiving federal funds.

Gaps in labor force participation rates by racial and ethnic groups are examined in the third chart and the participation rates of each group appear in the fourth chart. The _People of Color (POC)_ trendline comprises any racial or ethnic group that is not white alone, non-Latinx. _Latinx_ represents those with a Hispanic or Latino origin in the ACS. While some disagree with listing Latinx populations as POC, as some may list race as white, in the Greater Philadelphia region, only 1.7% of the Latinx population identified as white in the 2020 Census. When not suppressed due to sample size in the ACS, some POC component groups appear with their own trendlines: Black, non-Latinx; Asian, non-Latinx; and Latinx. POC groups that aren’t large enough in most counties to show a consistent trend, such as Native Americans or those with two or more races, are not shown as a result.

To create estimates of participation rates for groups and geographies not reported by the Census Bureau, weighted averages were employed. For aggregate geographies, such as the nine-county region, county participation rates were weighted by each county’s population 20 to 64 years old by sex and by population 16 and older by race or ethnicity. People of Color participation estimates were weighted by each component group’s population 16 and over in each county.

When the sample of any racial or ethnic is too low, the Census Bureau suppresses the data. Consequently some years don’t have estimates and they won’t appear on the trendlines. Estimates that aren’t suppressed for groups with a small population share are likely to be more variable from year-to-year as data quality suffers from the lack of a representative sample. Users should use caution when interpreting results.

_Note: The Census Bureau issued [a statement acknowledging errors in 2017 ACS data for Philadelphia County](https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/acs/technical-documentation/errata/121.html). Philadelphia estimates for geography of residence are omitted as a result, but the error may impact the regional aggregations.  Also note, the 2020 one-year ACS was not released due to disruptions of the Covid-19 pandemic._