1999 marked the year with the greatest proportion of building permit approvals—66.2 percent—in the region’s Growing Suburbs and Rural Areas. Chart 1 shows the trendline for percent of permits issued in the region’s Core Cities and Developed Communities. The proportion issued in Core Cities and Developed Communities increased between 1999 and 2022 by 27.9% to 61.7% of all permits. From 2012 to 2020 the annual percentage in Core Cities and Developed Communities has ranged between 60% and 70% of all approvals—levels not seen since the early 1980s. The one year jump to 85.3% of approvals in 2021 was an anomaly caused by the expiration of the City of Philadelphia’s tax abatement incentives, and multitudes of builders seeking permit approvals while they still qualified for the abatements. 2022 permits in Philadelphia were back to levels of the prior decade and regionally the percentage issued in Core Cities and Developed Communities were back to 2013 levels. Because so many were issued in 2021 in the biggest of the region’s Core Cities, rates may lag for a few years until those previously approved are built.

Charts 2 and 3 show total permits approved by Planning Area and by type of permit, respectively. Further emphasizing the 2021 anomaly, there were 6,000 more approvals in this year than the prior annual peak in 1986; and Philadelphia alone surpassed the regional count of approvals for all but 2 years in the mid 1980s. 2021 was the first year since the Great Recession on par with permit activity during the pre-housing bubble early 2000s.

The “Since Base Year” option in the dropdown menu for all three charts presents the cumulative units approved since 1980. Since the low point of 46.1% of permits issued in Core Cities and Developed Communities in 2003, permitting rates in these Planning Areas surpassed 50% for the first time in 2020. Despite the increase in the rate of permits issued in these areas in more recent years, the cumulative effect of prior development preferences during the housing boom of the 1980s and ‘90s has been difficult to overcome.

Chart 3 shows a waning interest in single-family development that dominated small and large multifamily development structures until more recent years. By 2019 and 2020, multifamily approvals were between 55% and 60% of all permit approvals. Still, single-family units represent 71% of units approved from 1980 to 2022. 2022 saw a drop in multifamily approvals from its highs in 2019 and 2020. It was down to 48%, potentially due to the aftereffects of all the Philadelphia multifamily approvals of 2021.