1999 marked the year with the greatest proportion of housing unit approvals—66.2 percent—in the region’s Growing Suburbs and Rural Areas. Chart 1 shows the trendline for percent of units approved via building permits in the region’s Core Cities and Developed Communities. The proportion approved in Core Cities and Developed Communities increased between 1999 and 2022 by 27.9% to 61.7% of all units approved. Since 2012,Core Cities and Developed Communities have been the location for at least 60% of all approvals—levels not seen since the early 1980s. The one year jump to 85.3% of approvals in 2021 was an anomaly, caused by the expiration of the City of Philadelphia’s tax abatement incentives and multitudes of builders seeking permit approvals while they still qualified for the abatements. In 2022, permits in Philadelphia were back to levels of the prior decade; regionally, the percentage of units approved in Core Cities and Developed Communities were back to 2013 levels. Because so many permits were issued in 2021, rates may lag for a few years until previously approved units are built.

Charts 2 and 3 show total units approved by Planning Area and by type of unit, respectively. Further emphasizing the 2021 anomaly, there were 6,000 more approvals in this year than the prior annual peak in 1986; and Philadelphia alone surpassed the regional count of approvals for all but 2 years in the mid 1980s. 2021 was the first year since the Great Recession on par with unit approval activity during the pre-housing bubble early 2000s.

The “Since Base Year” option in the dropdown menu for all three charts presents the cumulative units approved since 1980. Since the low point of 46.1% of units approved in Core Cities and Developed Communities in 2003, approval rates in these Planning Areas surpassed 50% for the first time in 2020. Despite the increase in the rate of units approved in these areas in more recent years, the cumulative effect of prior development preferences during the housing boom of the 1980s and ‘90s has been difficult to overcome.

Chart 3 shows a waning interest in single-family development that dominated small and large multifamily development structures until more recent years. By 2019 and 2020, multifamily approvals were between 55% and 60% of all unit approvals. Still, single-family units represent 71% of units approved from 1980 to 2022. Multifamily unit approvals dropped in 2022 from their highs in 2019 and 2020; approvals were  down to 48%, almost certainly due to the anomaly of 2021.