As part of the American Community Survey (ACS), the U.S. Census Bureau collects information regarding respondents' educational attainment. Educational attainment refers to the highest level of education that all individuals age 25 and older have completed. Response categories include no schooling completed; nursery school, grades 1 through 11; 12th grade but no diploma; regular high school diploma; GED or alternative credential; some college credit, but less than one year of college; one or more years of college credit, no degree; associate's degree; bachelor's degree; master's degree, professional degree beyond bachelor's degree; and doctorate degree.

The charts here detail educational attainment of residents age 25 and older. The first chart shows the percentage of the population that has completed high school or the equivalent by regional and county geographies. The second chart shows the same data by Planning Area from the 2000 decennial and 5-year ACS estimates. The third chart shows the percentage of the population that falls into various categories of educational attainment. Select geographies in the drop-down list of the third chart to see how educational attainment varies across the region.

Note that, due to survey sample size, the values are estimates—each within a margin of error. Estimates may show a general trend but may not be statistically significant when compared with each other if change is slight—particularly in lower-population geographies.

_Note: The Census Bureau issued [a statement acknowledging errors in 2017 ACS data for Philadelphia County](https://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/acs/technical-documentation/errata/121.html). Philadelphia estimates for geography of residence are omitted as a result, but the error may impact the regional aggregations.  Also note, the 2020 1-year ACS was not released due to disruptions of the COVID-19 pandemic._