The gap in mortgage approval rates for all loan purposes between groups based on sex, ethnicity, and race all declined by 9% to 10% from 2007 to 2021. The female to male loan origination rate gap narrowed from 10.9% in 2007 to a 1.4% gap in 2021, the Latinx to non-Latinx gap dropped from 16.8% to 7.4% in those same years, and the non-white to white gap reduced from 20.5% to 10.2%. Asians saw a consistent, but small gap from white loan origination rates with a 1.7% gap in 2007 and 1.6% gap in 2021. Driving the still high 10% non-white to white gap were “other” non-white applicants and Black applicants whose rates were 21.5% and 15.9% higher than whites’, respectively.

Within the region, gaps generally narrowed for all groups. The scale of female to male gaps declined from around 10% in 2007 to 1% in 2021 for Philadelphia, PA suburban counties, and New Jersey counties. The Latinx to non-Latinx loan origination gap dropped to under 6% by 2021 for Philadelphia and New Jersey Counties, but was around 8% for PA suburban counties. By 2021 Philadelphia had the highest gap between Black and white loan seekers at 19%. That group was stubbornly high for PA suburban counties and NJ counties in 2021 as well at 13% and 11% respectively.

Gaps between groups appear to vary by loan purpose. As seen in the second chart, home purchases tend to have the highest percentage of originations for all groups with origination rates of 84% (Black and other non-white) to 94% (white) in 2021. Refinancing had the next highest rates for all groups, ranging from 75% (Black) to 87% (white) in 2021. Home improvement loans had the lowest approval rates and the gaps between groups were much wider. In 2021, whites in the region had a home improvement loan origination rate of 71.5% while other non-white approvals were only at 36.6%. 2021 origination rate gaps for home improvements were more than 5% for females, relative to males; more than 25% for Latinx to non-Latinx, greater than 15% for Asian to white; and greater than 30% for Blacks and other non-whites, relative to white. Home improvement loans often are taken out while mortgage loans are also being paid off. The gap likely shows the chasm of financial wherewithal between these groups. Male, non-Latinx and white populations are more likely to have benefited from the build-up of generational wealth and income opportunities that give banks assurance that they’ll make good on their loan payment requirements.

The third chart shows the levels of total originations and denials of loans. A decline from the post-“housing bubble” recession is seen in the early years displayed, followed by a significant uptick in 2018 and onward for all loan purposes. Record low interest rates in the Covid pandemic are reflected in the rise in refinancing attempts in 2020 and 2021. For all the 2018 to 2021 attempts at loans, the two groups that broke away from the pack were non-Latinx and white populations.