The gap in mortgage approval rates for all loan purposes between groups based on sex, ethnicity, and race each declined between 8% and 10% from 2007 to 2022. From 2007 to 2022, the female-to-male loan origination rate gap narrowed from 10.9% to 1.0%, the Latinx-to-non-Latinx gap dropped from 16.8% to 7.9%, and the non-white-to-white gap dropped from 20.5% to 12.4%. Asians saw a consistent, but small gap from white loan origination rates with a 1.7% gap in 2007 and a 0.7% gap in 2022. From 2021 to 2022, the Black-to-white gap went up 2.4%, leading to Black applicants having an overall 18.3% lower loan origination rate than white applicants. This is the main reason behind the high white to non-white gap of 12.4%.

Within the region, gaps generally narrowed for all groups. Female-to-male gaps declined from around 10% in 2007 to around 1% or less in 2022 for Philadelphia, Pennsylvania suburban counties within the region, and New Jersey counties within the region. The Latinx-to-non-Latinx loan origination gap dropped to under 6% by 2022 for Philadelphia and New Jersey counties, but increased to around 9% for Pennsylvania suburban counties. By 2022, Philadelphia had the highest gap between Black and white loan seekers at 19%. However, this gap was also wide and increasing for Pennsylvania suburban counties and New Jersey counties in 2022 at 16.6% and 12.4%, respectively.

Gaps between groups appear to vary by loan purpose. As seen in the second chart, home purchase loans tend to have the highest percentage of originations for all groups, with rates of 82.5% (Black) to 92.2% (white) in 2022. Refinancing had the next-highest rates for all groups, ranging from 62.6% (Black) to 77.7% (white) in 2022. Home improvement loans had the lowest approval rates, and the gaps between groups were much wider. In 2022, whites in the region had a home improvement loan origination rate of 74.8%, while Black approval rates, although increasing, were only 44.5%. Origination rate gaps for home improvements in 2022 were greater than 5% for female-to-male; greater than 25% for Latinx-to-non-Latinx; greater than 15% for Asian-to-white; and 30% for Black-to-white. Historically, male, non-Latinx, and white populations have had a higher probability of benefiting from the accumulation of generational wealth and income opportunities from homeownership, which shapes the outcomes of present-day mortgage applications.

The third chart shows the levels of total decisioned applications. The years immediately following the Great Recession had a decrease in approved mortgage applications, followed by a significant uptick in 2018 and onward for all loan purposes. Record low interest rates during the COVID-19 pandemic are reflected in the rise in refinance applications in 2020 and 2021. Conversely, interest rate jumps in 2022  contributed to a precipitous decline. Generally, they fell in line with 2018 or 2019 levels. For all decisioned applications between 2018 and 2021, the two groups with the greatest increase were non-Latinx and white populations. Despite total declines in 2022, these two groups continued to engage in loan application activity significantly more than other groups.