Mortgage lending data comes from the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council's (FFIEC) Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA) data. _Tracking Progress_ gathers data on _loan originations_, which is the creation of a loan after bank approval. Loan origination rates are calculated from the universe of loan applications that either were approved or denied. For all charts, the loan’s purpose can be selected via a dropdown list. Trends by all purposes are displayed by default. Loans for home purchase, home improvement, or refinancing can also be selected.

The trends in loan origination rate gaps between groups by sex, ethnicity, and race are shown in the first chart. By default, trendlines of female to male gap, Latinx to non-Latinx gap, and non-white to white gap are shown. To view trendlines of component non-white groups, select Asian to white, Black to white, or other non-white to white. 

_Latinx _represents those identifying as Hispanic or Latino. Racial groups are presented as _non-white_ groups and white and will contain both Latinx and non-Latinx populations. _Other_ races exclude white, Black and Asian, and include those that may identify as American Indian and Alaska natives or Native Hawaiian and other Pacific Islanders. This is a very small group (five to ten times smaller than the next smallest group), so rates can vary based on the few applicants in a given year.

HMDA data limits sex and gender to a binary scale that suits neither sex nor gender. Choices are limited to male, female, or to leave the information blank. Sex is a term referring to a person's anatomical characteristics. The binary choice in the survey leaves out intersex and trans individuals. Gender refers to a person's identity. People may identify with the gender assigned to them at birth (cisgender), a different gender (transgender), or gender non-conforming, genderqueer, gender fluid, or non-binary identities. Since the data refers to sex, we use the same term, knowing it has limits. The term sex is also in line with the protections against discrimination based on sex found in the Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1973—a law DVRPC must comply with as a public agency receiving federal funds.

Each group’s loan origination rates, from which the gaps in the first chart come, are shown in the second chart.

Total originations and denials are summed for each year in the final chart to show the level of attempted loan activity occurring within each group.