Poor pavement conditions rose in the Greater Philadelphia region from 30.2% in 2010 to a peak of 39.2% in 2014, but that gain has since been wiped out. By 2021, poor condition pavement dropped to 29.7% of all pavement segment miles. DVRPC is working with both state departments of transportation to advance the right repair project at the right time by allocating more funding to preserving and maintaining existing pavement, in order to better align the region’s resources with the considerable pavement maintenance needs from an aging roadway network.Between 2010 and 2021, the number of segment miles listed in poor condition dropped by only 0.5%. 

By state, the DVRPC New Jersey counties have seen a greater improvement in the period from 2010 to 2021 than the region’s Pennsylvania counties. New Jersey counties’ poor condition pavement dropped from 41.6% of segment miles to 22.6%. Pennsylvania counties’ poor condition pavement went from 25.5% to 32.7%. Most counties track fairly closely with others in their state, but in Philadelphia poor conditions were experienced on half or more of its pavement segment miles for the years available (2017–2021).

Pennsylvania roadways account for much of the deficient pavement in the region, with 1,360.8 segment miles falling into poor condition in 2021 (a 27% increase between 2010 and 2021). Shifting financial resources to reduce the backlog of structurally deficient bridges is a contributing factor in pavement decline in this subregion. Despite the poor numbers over the eleven-year period, conditions have steadily improved in Pennsylvania since 2015, when poor pavement conditions peaked at 36.8% of all lane miles. This improvement came following the passage of Act 89, which generated additional revenue for transportation improvements throughout the Commonwealth.

In New Jersey, asset management practices have focused on improving pavement condition, and ratings have steadily improved. Between 2010 and 2021, the subregion succeeded in increasing the amount of segment miles listed in Good condition by 87%. New Jersey benefits from a newer transportation network compared to Pennsylvania, and has not yet faced the same end-of-useful-life challenges for much of its infrastructure.