Both the New Jersey Department of Transportation (NJDOT) and the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation (PennDOT) track pavement condition as required by federal regulations for state-maintained and National Highway System (NHS) roadways. PennDOT maintains a Pavement Asset Management System, which tracks the condition of all federal- and state-owned roadways. NJDOT has a Pavement Management System that likewise tracks road condition for all federal and state-owned road segments. One measure of road condition is the International Roughness Index (IRI). The IRI determines pavement roughness conditions based on total inches of surface variation per mile. It is important to note that segment miles are used in the pavement conditions graphs. Segment miles measure the roadway length without regard to width. Lane miles would take length and width into account but are only reported by NJDOT. Segment miles are reported by both agencies. Consequently, narrower roads, with fewer lanes, will be overrepresented in the data and wider interstates, with more lanes, will be underrepresented.

Pavement performance targets for NHS roads have been identified by each state DOT, as well as DVRPC—and can be different from each other—for a four-year period. The initial set of targets was reported by state departments of transportation (DOTs) to the Federal Highway Administration by May 20, 2018, with a target horizon date of 2021. MPOs then had 180 days to report their targets to state DOTs for the same four-year period. Targets are required for the full extent of the system, regardless of ownership. Data is based on through, mainline lanes only and does not include ramp conditions. Data must be collected in one direction for IRI, percentage of cracking, rutting, and faulting. Pavement Surface Rating can be used as an optional performance measure on roads with speeds of less than 40 miles per hour. No more than 5% of the NHS system can have missing or invalid data. The rules also set a minimum target threshold for interstate pavements, where no more than 5% can be in poor condition.

The first chart displays the percentage of pavement in deficient condition for the region, along with the New Jersey and Pennsylvania subregions. Explore the data further by specifying a road type in the drop-down menu. The second chart shows each condition type in total lane miles with options to specify region or subregion and road type.